---
tags:
  - Journal
Document State: Draft
Report:
---
A Guide to Meditation: Training the Skill of Focus

Meditation is the launching point for a large portion of [[Shadow Work]], it is at the foundation of [[Projection]]. In this guide, we explore a simple meditation practice, focusing on breath and thought control, and how these elements are used in training your attention and focus.

Mediation is the art of focus, the most prevalent communicated form of this practice is centered around breath and thought control. By honing in on your breath and learning to navigate the landscape of your thoughts, aiming to achieve a steady state of awareness and concentration.

Meditation is not just about 'ignoring' your thoughts; it’s a more nuanced practice of noticing or perceiving your thoughts and then choosing not to interact with them. It's about letting these thoughts pass without interacting with them or letting them affect your state of being.

For example, Imagine you are meditating, focusing on the rhythm of your breath. Suddenly, a thought about a chore, such as unloading the dishwasher, pops into your head.

Your instinct might be to engage with this thought, planning to complete the chore post-meditation or worrying about completing the chore. However the goal in mediation is to maintain focus and control, shifting your concentration from this new thought.

This is where the practice of focusing on your breath becomes valuable. It serves as a tangible point of focus, guiding your attention back to a state of concentration. It's important to remember that your ability to focus is like a muscle—the more you work it and challenge it, the stronger it becomes.

It's highly recommended to form a habit of meditating as it is foundational in most magickal practices. Starting with a minimum of 5 minutes a day is a starting point for those new to meditation. As you become more accustomed to the practice, aim to extend your sessions progressively, following this structured approach:

- Tier 0: 5 Minutes
- Tier 1: 7 minutes
- Tier 2: 10 minutes
- Tier 3: 15 minutes
- Tier 4: 20 minutes
- Tier 5: 25 minutes

You will find as your progress through these tiers your ability to focus and stay in the state of mind is easier to achieve and maintain. As you become more familiar with this space, begin to explore this new found ability. To dive deeper into what doors can be opened by mediation look into projection and shadow work.