---
tags:
  - Journal
Document State: Draft
Report:
---
It is highly recommended you read the journal [[J-10004]] before continuing to read.

[[Meditation]] is about focus, training yourself to be able to look away from a thought or moment to take control of your perception. Projection is the next step in mediation, instead of just controlling the ability to NOT look at something, you begin to control what you are looking at.

  

We engage in a form of rudimentary or unconscious projection every day, whether exploring day dreams, imagining the future, or recollecting about the past. These instances are you the observer changing their focus away from the physical world or material realm and projecting elsewhere. 

  

Here’s an example of unconsciously projecting to a lucid realm of thought to perform a simple day dream of planning your day;

  

  

The above, while similar to the ultimate goal of projection, are lacking a crucial element - intention. The ultimate aim of projection is to harness the conscious ability to deliberately steer your focus to explore your personal inner world and possibly external portions of reality.

  

To embark on the practice of projecting, it's essential to first identify the type of [lucid construct] you're drawn to – a memory, dream, daydream, etc. that you want to examine. Then, recognize the imaginative or lucid realm that construct belongs to. With these ideas in mind you can begin meditating on the lucid construct and exploring the lucid realm it resides in to begin expanding and understanding your projecting skill set.

  

Here’s an example of projecting to the lucid realm of thought to construct a simple daydream of planning your day;

  

This example may seem mundane and like an everyday action you have done, this is exactly the point, a starting place for understanding projection. However the main difference between your everyday act of visualizing imagination and projecting like described above,  is that projecting is intentionally visiting these realms and constructs to achieve a goal and not just the subconscious body going through the motions of life.